Memo

From: Richard Ho, Chi-Kan Cheung, Maisha Mehrin
To: Airport Director
Date: 4/26/2015
RE: Airport Simulation

After running numerous simulations with the assumptions that it takes 5 minutes for a plane to take off, 7 minutes for a plane to land, and a plane can stay in the landing queue for a maximum of 20 minutes before crashing. We also assume there is only one runway in operation. In this memo, I will discuss the results of the simulations to determine wheter or not your airfield needs an additional runway.

When using a simulated probability of 0.5 for a plane to enter the takeoff queue and .4 for a plane to enter the landing queue, it is clear that a single runway would not be able to support this much traffic. A simulation using these parameters resulted in many crashing while virtually no planes were able to take off as planes needed to be constantly landed to lower the number of planes crashing. This results in an unacceptable amount of crashes and clearly shows that a single runway cannot support this volume of planes. Similar results were seen whenn running the simulation multiple times. As the airport continues to grow in the future, it would need to support an even higher volume of flights and this is impossible with the current single runway solution. As we increased the probabilities of planes entering either queue, the number of crashes increased as well.

To simulate adding a second runway, we halved the number of planes arriving, thus resulting in a .25 probability of a plane to enter the takeoff queue and .2 probability for the plane to enter the landing queue. This resulted in a significant reduction in crashes as well as reduced waiting time for planes landing. However, very few planes were still able to take off and there were stil around 30 crashes in a period of 6 hours. This is once again, clearly unacceptable and it appears that the addition of a second runway would not be sufficient to mitigate crashes at this airport. Remember, that this simulation does not take into account an increase in airport traffic as well. To further simulate additional scenarios, we halved the probabilities again, to simulate 4 runways. This resutled in a signifcant reduction in crashes and resulting in only a handful over 6 hours. This is still not ideal, but is much better than just having one or two runways

In the end, it is clear that one runway is not sufficient for this airport using the assumptions stated above. If traffic were to increase, the consequence would be even more disastrous. The addition of a second runway is a must, and would still not be sufficient to mitigate all crashes at the airport. I recommend having at least 4 runways to mitigate the number of crashes. If the airport did see less traffic than assumed above, it would be possible for the airport to run efficiently with just two runways.